.TH PRETTY_FILES 1 "July 2026" "pretty_files 2.5.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
pretty_files \- lightweight command-line file viewer with syntax highlighting and automatic binary detection

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B pretty_files
.RI [ OPTIONS ] " " <PATHS...>

.br

.B pretty_files
.B bare
.RI [ OPTIONS ] " " <DIRECTORIES...>

.br

.B pretty_files
.B help
.RI [ TOPIC ]

.br

.B pretty_files
.B version

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B pretty_files
is a lightweight command-line file viewer written in Rust.

It provides syntax-highlighted text viewing, automatic binary file
inspection, recursive directory traversal, file path listing, optional
line numbers, file filtering, and automatic file headers when displaying
multiple files.

Text files are displayed with syntax highlighting when possible.
Unknown or unsupported file types are displayed as plain text.

Binary files are automatically detected and displayed as hexadecimal
dumps with a printable ASCII preview.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B help [TOPIC]
Display help information.

Available topics:

.B text
and
.B bare .

.TP
.B bare
Print file paths without displaying file contents.
Useful for piping file lists into other commands.

.TP
.B version
Display the installed version of
.BR pretty_files .

.SH TEXT MODE

Text mode is the default mode and displays the contents of files.

Binary files are automatically detected and handled separately.

.SS Options

.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-numbers
Display line numbers.

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
Recursively search directories for files.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Display file names before displaying their contents.

.TP
.B \-D
Disable automatic debug mode.

Automatic debug mode is enabled when displaying multiple files.

.TP
.B \-S
Disable syntax highlighting.

.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore " " <PATH>
Ignore a file or path.
This option may be specified multiple times.

.SS Examples

.TP
Display a file:
.B pretty_files main.rs

.TP
Display multiple files:
.B pretty_files main.rs Cargo.toml

.TP
Display line numbers:
.B pretty_files -n src/main.rs

.TP
Search recursively:
.B pretty_files -r src/

.TP
Disable syntax highlighting:
.B pretty_files -S README.md

.TP
Ignore a file:
.B pretty_files -r -i src/lib.rs src/

.SH BARE MODE

The
.B bare
command prints file paths without displaying file contents.

It is useful for scripting, shell pipelines, and quickly listing files.

.SS Synopsis

.B pretty_files bare
.RI [ OPTIONS ] " " <DIRECTORIES...>

.SS Options

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recursive
Recursively search directories.

.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore " " <PATH>
Ignore a file or path.
This option may be specified multiple times.

.SS Examples

.TP
List files inside a directory:
.B pretty_files bare src/

.TP
List files recursively:
.B pretty_files bare -r src/

.TP
Ignore a file:
.B pretty_files bare -r -i src/lib.rs src/

.TP
Use output in a shell loop:
.nf
for file in $(pretty_files bare -r src/); do
    cat "$file"
done
.fi

.SH HELP TOPICS

.TP
.B pretty_files help
Display general help.

.TP
.B pretty_files help text
Display text mode options.

.TP
.B pretty_files help bare
Display bare mode options.

.SH NOTES

.TP
Automatic debug mode is enabled when displaying multiple files.
Use
.B \-D
to disable it.

.TP
The
.B \-r
option expects directories as input.

.TP
Bare mode only outputs file paths and does not display file contents.

.TP
Binary files are detected automatically and displayed as hexadecimal data
with an ASCII preview.

.SH DEPENDENCIES

.TP
.B syntect
Provides syntax highlighting and language detection.

.TP
.B walkdir
Provides recursive directory traversal.

.TP
.B content_inspector
Provides binary file detection.

.SH AUTHOR

Written by yok1rai.

.SH LICENSE

GNU General Public License v3.0
